---
type: Post
title: Return to Hyrule
date: 2023-05-13
lang: en
machineTranslated: true
tags:
  - Games
authors:
  - Kyle
---

After a six-year wait, the latest installment in the "Zelda" series, "Tears of
the Kingdom," has finally been released. Before "Breath of the Wild," Zelda was
not very popular in China; thus, I consider myself somewhat of an old Zelda
player in China. In the six years since completing "Breath of the Wild," a lot
has happened, and I've played many great new games; however, with the release of
"Tears of the Kingdom," I was shocked to realize I had almost forgotten why I
loved Zelda so much. "Genshin Impact," once considered a "Zelda copy," has now
flourished. Can "Genshin Impact" really be compared to Zelda?

## My Zelda History

My first Zelda game was "Twilight Princess," which I played at a neighbor's
house as a child. It started when I saw my neighbor's father playing: the main
character, a wolf, was sneaking around a village at night. To this day,
"Twilight Princess" remains my favorite Zelda game: its mysterious twilight
world, dark realistic style, and the protagonist's dual human-wolf form all
highlight the game's distinctive character.

The dungeons in "Twilight Princess" are larger than in other titles, and the
boss design is very intricate. The most memorable boss for me is probably the
final boss of the Arbiter's Grounds dungeon in the desert area, Twilit Fossil:
Stallord. Stallord, a skeletal dragon, is awakened by the antagonist Zant using
the power of twilight. The player must destroy the boss's spine while dodging
summoned skeleton soldiers and then battle directly with the boss's skull.
Though not very difficult, the satisfaction of battling a giant dragon alone is
unparalleled.

Starting with "Twilight Princess," I experienced many 2D Zelda games on my phone
using emulators. From the beautifully crafted, light-hearted "The Minish Cap" to
the dark and oppressive "A Link to the Past." The most impactful for me was
probably "Link's Awakening."

Similar to "A Link to the Past," I completed "Link's Awakening" on my phone
during my junior high school exam period. As an old handheld Zelda game, its
graphics and boss designs are simple. Yet, I felt an inexplicable sense of heavy
loss after completing it, to the point where the background music of the
island's village and Marin's song echoed in my mind for a long time. Watching
the island disappear as the Wind Fish awakens, perhaps our meeting was just a
dream of the Wind Fish.

Besides emulators, I also played other Zelda games on contemporary consoles and
handhelds, including fan favorites "Ocarina of Time" and "Majora's Mask."
However, due to the disappointing graphics of the N64 era, even the remastered
versions on the 3DS didn't appeal to me much. Perhaps "Ocarina of Time," as the
first 3D Zelda game, was revolutionary in gameplay, but for those accustomed to
3D games, it's hard to experience the excitement of players at that time.

## Zelda's New Era

In 2017, "Breath of the Wild" completely ushered in a new era for the Zelda
series, setting the standard for open-world games. While astonishing, I was also
somewhat disappointed that the unique dungeon designs that were once a hallmark
of the Zelda series had been greatly diminished, losing much of their
exploratory value and instead being scattered across the vast world and within
120 shrines. The four Divine Beasts, while still altering the terrain, no longer
offered the satisfaction of deeper exploration. The past Zelda dungeons often
had mid-bosses that, upon defeat, would grant new items unlocking previously
inaccessible areas, a feature rarely seen in "Breath of the Wild." Perhaps this
was a compromise made by the development team.

In 2023, "Tears of the Kingdom" brought me back to Hyrule. Riding a horse across
the plains of Hyrule remains exhilarating. However, from a broader perspective,
"Tears of the Kingdom" is essentially "Breath of the Wild 2" for me. The game's
most distinctive feature seems to be "construction," allowing players to build
facilities to solve puzzles. However, it doesn't bring back the classic
Zelda-style dungeons I miss. Perhaps the Zelda team has already made their
choice.

## A Look at "Genshin Impact"

There's no doubt that "Genshin Impact" is also an excellent game. Despite the
initial plagiarism controversy, miHoYo has proven that "Genshin Impact" is more
than just a Zelda clone. The game's diverse characters and artistic values of
different nations have showcased their uniqueness to the world. Some say the
core of "Genshin Impact" lies not in its open world,
