---
type: Post
title: Getting Started with Unity
date: 2023-05-12
lang: en
tags:
  - Programming
  - Unity
authors:
  - Kyle
---

Recently, I have been following a [Unity
tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AmGSEH7QcDg) on YouTube made by [Code
Monkey](https://unitycodemonkey.com/). The 10-hour tutorial is absolutely
amazing, and introduced many concepts in a fun Overcooked-like project.

Before this tutorial, I have tried to pick up Unity a lot of times. Every time
that I tried, it felt that Unity is a complete mess. Code Monkey did a great job
explaining how Unity works in general, and talked about many good scripting
practices that many tutorials just do not care about.

## The Game Object-Component System

Unity games are made of Scenes, and a Scene is a tree of Game Objects. Each Game
Object is associated with a Transform component, which determines the position,
rotation and scale of the Game Object.

In addition to the Transform component, a Game Object can have arbitrary other
components that gives it more features. For example, a renderer component gives
the Game Object a body, a collider component enables collision detection, a
rigid body component enables physics simulation, etc.

Besides various built-in components, the developer can create their own
components using `MonoBehaviour` scripts. `MonoBehaviour` scripts have various
lifecycle hooks, like `Awake`, `Start` and `Update`, which Unity calls at
various times.

These scripts can grow large and get out of hand pretty quickly, so it's best
practice to break down and decouple scripts into smaller scripts. For example,
we should have separate scripts for handling visuals, and maybe another separate
script for handling audio.

### Communication within the same Game Object

Components on the same Game Object can find each other with the
`GetComponent<T>` method. Usually, the component reference is stored in a
private field, and initialized in `Awake`.

```cs
private RigidBody rigidBody;

private void Awake() {
  rigidBody = GetComponent<RigidBody>();
}
```

### Communication across Game Objects

Often scripts need to interact with other Game Objects. One way to get a
reference to other objects is using functions like `FindObjectOfType` and
`FindObjectWithTag`. However, there are usually better ways.

If our script only needs to talk to a fixed Game Object, we can add a
`SerializeField`, and drag the other Game Object to the field in the Unity
inspector. This is particularly useful for communication between Game Objects
within a Prefab.

```cs
[SerializeField] private SomeComponent otherObject;

otherObject.doSomething();
```

If our script does not know what Game Objects it might be talking to, the better
option might be to use events. With C# events, the receiver objects can
subscribe to the event and react whenever the event is fired in the sender
object.

```cs
// Sender
public event EventHandler OnSomethingHappened;

OnSomethingHappened?.Invoke(this, EventArgs.Empty);

// Receiver
[SerializeField] private SendingComponent otherObject;

private Start() {
  otherObject.OnSomethingHappened += OtherObject_OnSomethingHappened;
}

private void OtherObject_OnSomethingHappened(object sender, EventArgs e) {
  // ...
}
```

## Scriptable Objects

Scriptable Objects are another type of scripts in Unity. Unlike `MonoBehaviour`
scripts, `ScriptableObject` scripts don't live inside Game Objects. Rather it
lives inside the Asset directory in the project, and can be used by many Game
Objects and even many scenes.

It's probably easy to think of Scriptable Objects as data containers like C
structs. A C# script defines a data schema, and then instances of this struct
can be created as files in your Asset folder. If we add the `CreateAssetMenu`
attribute to the class, we can create instances of the Scriptable Object using
the right-click menu in Unity.

```cs
[CreateAssetMenu()]
public class SomeSO : ScriptableObject {
  public string someField;
  public int someOtherField;
}
```

Besides serving as data containers, Scriptable Objects can also act as
communication channels between scenes. This is slightly more advanced, and
wasn't covered in the tutorial.

## To Be Continued

I am currently 8 hours into the tutorial, and plan to follow through with it.
Unity is a crazy-popular game engine, but somehow a lot of tutorials on the
market are very low quality, and it feels that the tutorial maker doesn't even
understand what they are doing. I'm glad that I found Code Monkey's tutorial,
and would recommend it to anyone interested in learning to build games.
