---
type: Post
title: Goodbye, 2021
date: 2022-01-01
lang: en
machineTranslated: true
tags:
  - Misc
---

Another year has passed. In some ways, 2021 can be considered an important year
in my life. This year, I left school, became a working professional, and
prepared to settle down in Seattle for the long term.

Leaving school was somewhat saddening for me. I always felt that I could
accomplish something in academia, but I found research too painful. When I
started a new project at the end of September last year, I felt overwhelmed by
my partner — just after a meeting at six, I'd see hundreds of lines of code on
GitHub by ten. My partner was indeed much more talented than I. I had to invest
a great deal of effort to keep up with his pace, making our weekly meetings
extremely stressful. Perhaps it's my lack of resilience or simply insufficient
capability, but I felt that pursuing a PhD was not the right path for me. So, in
June this year, I finally ended my student life, and the research project also
came to a conclusion in mid-November.

At the end of August, I joined Google and fulfilled a wish I've had since high
school. From application to interviews, team match, and finally the offer, it
took over four months. Receiving the offer was a moment of great joy. Although
it was never an unattainable dream, it probably marks a good starting point in
my career.

After starting work, I also began to explore financial planning. As a student, I
never had much of a concept of money, but I got interested in FIRE (Financial
Independence, Retire Early) during summer while watching “Let's Talk Money” on
YouTube. Only then did I realize that investment and financial management are
essential for everyone. In 2021, since I only worked for four months, over half
of each paycheck went into my 401(k). Starting in 2022, with some surplus,
investing became a new challenge. I hope to retire before I'm 45 — but I also
don't know what I want to do after that.

Although these significant events happened, looking back, 2021 feels somewhat
unremarkable. Perhaps I am a complete social animal; these events don't seem as
memorable as going to Japan with high school friends in the summer of 2017,
skiing with college friends during the 2017 winter vacation, or visiting friends
in New York for Christmas 2018. Since the outbreak of COVID-19 at the end of
2019, it's been two years, and I've been stuck in Seattle, with little
face-to-face interaction with friends, missing a lot of happiness. I've just
been living unremarkably.

Actually, I've been feeling very down lately. I feel that so far, my life has
been full of regrets (though I believe there might be people who live without
any). Am I too greedy? What does a truly brilliant life look like? I hope in
2022 I can have the opportunity to travel, visit New York again to hang out with
friends, take a week off on a cruise to relax, and maybe even go to Japan alone
to see the cities and countryside. Perhaps I'll find some clues during my
travels.
