---
type: Post
title: Seattle Eastside Wandering Desk
date: 2023-05-11
lang: en
machineTranslated: true
tags:
  - Misc
---

Sometimes, there's a need to find a seat for resting or working when outside,
like after taking the car for maintenance and needing a place for a meeting, or
while waiting for someone and wanting a spot to sit and work. In such cases,
finding a "nomadic desk" in the bustling city, a quiet corner, becomes
essential.

## Library (KCLS, SPL)

The library is usually my first choice. The benefits are clear: it's free, has
power outlets and wifi, and the environment is generally pleasant, with a good
atmosphere. I used to enjoy studying in libraries in Shanghai; while the
libraries in Seattle are not as grand as the Pudong Library, the coverage of
KCLS is quite extensive, and there's SPL in the Seattle city area. Basically,
there's always a KCLS or SPL nearby within their business hours.

However, the downsides are also obvious. First, libraries are only open during
the day; once they close, I need to find another place. Also, libraries near the
city center often have homeless people loitering, who may eat, sleep, snore, or
make various noises inside, which can be annoying and unsettling.

## Google Office

If the library is closed, I generally choose a nearby office. The office is
great because it's accessible 24 hours, and there are free snacks and drinks in
the Micro Kitchen. In fact, the office is a perfect option, addressing all the
issues with libraries. However, offices are not as widespread as libraries, and
being in the office reminds me of work, which can be depressing. It's also
slightly inconvenient to bring non-Googlers to the office.

## Starbucks

Starbucks is another good choice. They are widespread, have wifi, and power
outlets are somewhat scarce, but the atmosphere is decent, albeit a bit noisy.
Generally, I order a coffee to justify sitting there for a long time, but the
cost is not too high. Generally, Starbucks does not have homeless people staying
inside.

The most serious downside is the same as libraries: most Starbucks close around
six or seven in the evening, and I need to find another place at night.

## Various Bars

At night, there are very few places to go. Apart from the company, if I want to
sit outside, I can only find a bar. Bars are generally quite noisy, but they are
not too loud during the weekdays.

Although it's a bar, there are usually many food options, making it a great
place to visit when hungry at night. On Highway 99, there are a few Korean bars
open until late, like Kochi Pocha and Da Wa, which are slightly pricey but taste
good. If driving, it's inconvenient to drink alcohol (and not healthy), but
having some snacks while working is quite nice.

## At Home

If none of the above options appeal, then the only choice is to stay at home.
Home is comfortable, with everything I need, but it's easy to get distracted. I
might end up watching TV on Plex or playing "Genshin Impact" and "Stellaris."
Sometimes, the reason for going out to work is to find a better atmosphere to
avoid distractions.
