---
type: Post
title: Why I Love World of Warcraft
date: 2024-01-13
lang: en
machineTranslated: true
tags:
  - Games
---

Recently, with the opening of the "World of Warcraft" Classic's Season of
Discovery, I returned to the world of Azeroth with some old classmates, starting
our monster-slaying and leveling journey from Teldrassil and Elwynn Forest.

## My Bumpy Journey in WoW

My love for "Warcraft" wasn’t immediate. In fact, before I could truly call
myself a "WoW player," I had many failed attempts. Before the Classic server
launched in 2019, my roommate and I played "WoW" on the official server. I
played a Blood Elf Mage and my roommate a Blood Elf Warlock. I don’t remember
much now, just the gloomy Eversong Woods and the Ghostlands; after dying too
many times in Deatholme in the southern part of the Ghostlands, I stopped
playing. When Classic first came out, I created a Human Mage but quit around
level 12, finding the game tiresome; after being attacked by two monsters at
once, I’d die, and after a few deaths at the hands of the murlocs in Elwynn
Forest, I abandoned the game again. A few months later, I created a Human Rogue.
Due to social anxiety, I was reluctant to join dungeons and only went to the
Deadmines once. I stopped playing that character too after reaching around level 23.
Then, during the Season of Mastery, I created an Undead Priest, my first
healing role. In my first venture into Ragefire Chasm, I ran out of mana
quickly, leading to a wipe, and the tank left the group in frustration. I tried
Wailing Caverns and Blackfathom Deeps a few times, but the pressure of healing
felt overwhelming, and I stopped playing around level 25.

In the later phase of "The Burning Crusade" (TBC), I boosted a Night Elf Druid,
Sukiyakidon (on the Grobbulus server), to level 58. This was my first character
I seriously played to max level, earnestly completing quests and dungeons to
reach level 70. Initially, I spec'd into healing, stumbling through quests and
leveling, but things got easier when questing with my roommate, a priest. Later,
I switched to a Balance (boomkin) spec, which made questing much more enjoyable.
After "Wrath of the Lich King" (WLK) was released, my roommate stopped playing,
but I continued to level up to 80 in Northrend. This character made me start to
enjoy WoW; I gradually got used to the role of a healer, ensuring the safety of
my team in heroic dungeons. My only regret was that I never participated in
raiding from TBC to WLK, lacking confidence in my skills and gear.

A few months ago, when Classic Hardcore was released, I joined the fray,
cautiously advancing, avoiding cave quests, and only engaging in guerilla
warfare around enemy camps to complete quests. At level 23 in Redridge
Mountains, I naively cast Rejuvenation on a Warrior and a Priest being chased by
gnolls, drawing the aggro of a dozen gnolls and meeting my demise. After a few
days' break, I created another Night Elf Druid, Katsunabe, but died in a cave at
level 8 and didn't have the energy to continue playing Hardcore.

In early November last year, I learned about Season of Discovery at BlizzCon.
When the server opened, I created yet another Night Elf Druid, Katsunabe,
determined to finish what Sukiyakidon and Katsunabe had started, and once again
returned to Azeroth.

Why I Still Adore "WoW" Ever since high school, when I watched the anime "Sword
Art Online," I've dreamed of a game like SAO - a vast world of swords and magic,
where players from around the world find their way of life in a virtual world.
SAO is a VRMMORPG. VR stands for Virtual Reality, MMO for Massively Multiplayer
Online, and RPG for Role-Playing Game. Even twenty years after the release of
"World of Warcraft," I dare say WoW is probably the game closest to SAO. "World
of Warcraft" is an MMORPG, just one step away from VRMMORPG by missing the VR
element. Due to high operational costs, there haven’t been many great VRMMOs,
and the only one that can somewhat compare to "WoW" is "Final Fantasy XIV,"
though I believe "WoW" still significantly surpasses it.

What attracts me most to "WoW" is its vast lore. My first encounter with
Warcraft was in middle school, playing "Warcraft III." I tried a couple of
campaign missions, knowing about orcs like Thrall and Grommash, human paladins
like Arthas and Uther, and a prophet who could turn into a crow, and that was
about it. I also knew about races like night elves and the undead. During
college, while playing "Hearthstone," I began to learn more about Warcraft
heroes. I learned about Arthas killing his father and becoming the Lich King,
Medivh hosting parties in Karazhan, the Old Gods, and the Dragonflights. In my
limited experience with "WoW," I also learned about the age-old enmity between
the Alliance and Horde and the internal and external troubles of the Kingdom of
Stormwind.

Around 2021, Himalaya produced a "Warcraft" audio drama series. Having a basic
understanding of the Warcraft universe, I quickly became immersed in this
series, hearing many stories I had never known or only vaguely heard of. When I
first started listening to "The War of the Ancients" trilogy and entered the
"WoW" game, I tried to find the Well of Eternity and the ruins of Zin-Azshari in
Kalimdor, only to find that Zin-Azshari lay in a group of islands in the ocean.
I initially thought the game had a discrepancy, only later realizing that the
explosion of the Well of Eternity had shattered the entire continent of Kalimdor
into two large pieces and numerous islands, with the original location of the
Well being the Maelstrom at the map's center. After listening to "The Last
Guardian," I understood why Medivh held parties in Karazhan and learned about
his and his mother Aegwynn's legendary stories. After "Arthas," I truly
understood why Arthas transformed from a righteous paladin into the commander of
the undead army. I am currently listening to "Lord of the Clans," gradually
uncovering the story of Thrall behind the Old Hillsbrad Foothills dungeon in
TBC.

The millennia-long history of Warcraft undoubtedly laid a profound cultural
foundation for the game. Although the history I read was before the events of
"World of Warcraft" (which takes place about 25 years after the opening of the
Dark Portal), I could still meet those legendary heroes in the game, talk to
them, complete quests for them, and visit places I heard about in the stories,
seeing the majestic Stormwind City, the massive Dark Portal, the eerie Karazhan,
and even experiencing and participating in new history.

Besides its lore, WoW’s gameplay is also unique, especially in the early/classic
version. Many games (including single-player and MMOs) have a main quest line,
and players experience the game by following this main line, solving some side
quests along the way. In "WoW," however, all quests are just yellow exclamation
marks. Some quests are simply about killing one or 10 of a certain enemy, while
others involve significant events in an area. Regardless of the quest type, you
have the choice to accept or decline them. You can even level up by only killing
wild monsters or running dungeons. Through scattered or sequential quests,
players gradually piece together the events of an area and resolve issues
through several dungeon quests. Once your level exceeds a quest's level by 6,
that quest disappears from your map, though you can still accept these quests
without earning experience rewards.

The interesting part of this design is that it’s hard for players to complete
all quests on the map with a single character, experiencing the complete "World
of Warcraft" game. Due to different starting areas for races, even Alliance
players have three rough leveling routes below level 15: Night Elf players in
Teldrassil and Darkshore, Dwarf and Gnome players in Dun Morogh and Loch Modan,
and Human players in Elwynn Forest and Westfall. Since the first dungeon for the
Alliance is the Deadmines in Westfall, many Night Elves choose to level in
Elwynn Forest and complete the Human quest line, while many players explore
Teldrassil and Darkshore to learn about the history of the World Tree and the
mysteries of Darkshore. My first character in Hardcore went from Teldrassil to
Elwynn Forest at level 4 to level up, while my second character and my current
one in Season of Discovery experienced the complete quest lines of Teldrassil
and Darkshore. I have yet to play the Dun Morogh newbie zone storyline, so
perhaps my next character will be a Dwarf or Gnome, learning some new Warcraft
stories I’ve never heard before.

In addition to quest lines and racial differences, "WoW" also limits each player
to two trade professions. Available professions include Blacksmithing, Mining,
Alchemy, Enchanting, Skinning, Leatherworking, Tailoring, Herbalism, and
Engineering, plus Fishing, Cooking, and First Aid that every player can learn.
Different professions require different materials, for example, First Aid and
Tailoring both use cloth, while Tailoring occasionally needs leather from
Leatherworking, which in turn requires hides from Skinning; Alchemy inevitably
uses herbs, and both Engineering and Blacksmithing rely on ores from Mining. The
supply and demand between different professions create a unique auction house
economy in "WoW," with some players making a fortune just by crafting bags with
Tailoring or selling potions with Alchemy, while others go bankrupt buying
materials for leveling a profession.

## My Regrets About WoW

Returning to Azeroth this time, I’ve decided not to leave any regrets,
participating in as many activities as possible, and no longer avoiding raids
and PvP. Last Tuesday morning at five o'clock, I joined a raid in Blackfathom
Deeps (BFD) organized by a Chinese guild. It was my first experience with a
10-player raid, which was significantly more challenging than 5-player dungeons
(partly due to my inexperience with healing). Due to server maintenance, we only
defeated five bosses before disbanding, but we might attempt it again this
weekend. The teammates were friendlier than I expected, perhaps because "WoW"
players are generally older.

Before playing TBC, I always had a fear of cooperative team games, afraid of
being criticized by teammates for poor performance. This mindset mainly stemmed
from a few unsuccessful attempts at DotA and League of Legends. After getting
proficient in 5-player dungeons in TBC, I felt my cyber social anxiety lessen
considerably, becoming more proactive in communicating with teammates and more
willing to make requests. Participating in the BFD raid has also helped me
overcome my mental block about raiding.

Besides my late appreciation for "WoW" and raiding, I share a common regret with
many players regarding the use of addons like Questie or Bigfoot Quest. These
addons display the location of enemies to kill, items to collect, or devices to
interact with for each quest on the map, making quests a simple process of going
to the marked location, completing the objective, and returning. Many players
don’t even read the NPC dialogues or quest descriptions because Questie outlines
everything that needs to be done. With and without Questie, "WoW" becomes two
entirely different games.

I understand why Questie is so popular—the game really starts at max level for
many players. This is especially true for "WoW," as raids, which require max
level, are available from the first phase of each expansion, meaning players
aiming to raid must reach max level before the end of the first phase. Since
raid loot is far superior to leveling gear, many players want to speed through
the leveling process, and Questie significantly simplifies this. Additionally,
many players have already played "WoW" multiple times and are familiar with the
stories, just wanting to experience raids with different classes. As a newcomer
and lore enthusiast, the convenience Questie brings is outweighed by the missed
opportunities to fully immerse myself in the quests’ narratives. Nevertheless, I
still use Questie due to my desire to level up quickly to raid with friends and
the lack of time and energy to enjoy the stories due to work commitments.
Perhaps one day, when I have more leisure time, I'll uninstall all addons to
experience the authentic "World of Warcraft."
